---
title: "Trilogy"
tags:
  - religion
  - apologetics
---

#### Francis A. Schaeffer, "Trilogy," Crossway, 1990.

> "We must not forget that historic Christianity stands on a basis of antithesis. Without it, historic Christianity is meaningless. The basic antithesis is that God objectively exists in contrast (in antithesis) to His not existing." (p. 8)

> "Humanism in the large, more inclusive sense is the system whereby men and women, beginning absolutely by themselves, try rationally to build out from themselves, having only Man as their integration point, to find all knowledge, meaning and value." (p. 9)

> "...in the area of morals we need universals (absolutes) if we are to determine what is right and what is wrong. Not having universals, the modern concept is finally sociological: one assesses the statistics of public opinion of right and wrong, and a majority determines moral questions. Or we can think of an elite emerging to tell us what is right and what is wrong." (p. 304)

> "Before man had a romantic hope that on the basis of rationalism he was going to be able to find a meaning to life, and put universals over the particulars. But on this side of Rousseau, Kant, Hegel, and Kierkegaard, this hope no longer exists; the hope is given up. People today live in a generation that no longer believes in the hope of truth as truth." (pp. 310-311)

> "...modern man's mysticisms are semantic mysticisms that deal only with words; they hae nothing to do with anything being there, but are simply concerned with something in one's own head, or in language in one form or another." (p. 311)

> "Because men have lost the objective basis for certainty of knowledge in the areas in which they are working, more and more we are going to find them manipulating science according to their own sociological or political desires rather than standing upon concrete objectivity. We are going to find increasingly what I would call sociological science, where men manipulate the scientific facts." (p. 335)
